🧠 Thought Process

For this problem, my goal was to find two vertical lines that, together with the x-axis, form a container holding the maximum amount of water. 
At first, the problem seemed challenging because a brute force approach would require checking all possible pairs of lines, which would be too slow for large inputs. 
Instead, I aimed for a more optimal approach.

I decided to use the two-pointer technique, starting one pointer at the beginning of the array (i = 0) and the other at the end (j = height.length - 1). 
This approach makes sense because the widest container is between the two ends, and the only way to potentially find a larger area is to move the pointer pointing to the shorter line inward. 
This is because the container’s area depends on the shorter of the two heights—moving the taller line won’t help increase the area, but moving the shorter one might lead to a taller boundary and a larger area.

Here’s the step-by-step thought process of my code:
    Initialize variables:
        maxArea to track the largest area found so far.
        Two pointers i and j at opposite ends of the array.
    Iterate while i < j:
        Calculate the width (length = j - i).
        Find the limiting height (h = Math.min(height[i], height[j])).
        Compute the area (area = length * h) and update maxArea if this area is larger.
    Move the pointer:
    If the left line (height[i]) is shorter, move i forward.
    Otherwise, move j backward.
    This is the key optimization that avoids unnecessary comparisons and ensures an O(n) time complexity solution.

By following this logic, my solution efficiently checked all meaningful possibilities for the container boundaries without brute force. 
My runtime was 4ms, which is optimal for this problem.

While solving this, I made use of LeetCode’s hints and read through the discussions to understand the reasoning behind the two-pointer approach better. 
The hints helped me realize that starting from both ends and narrowing down is the most efficient strategy. 
Reading others' explanations clarified why moving the shorter pointer is the correct choice, which made my understanding of the problem much stronger.